JUDY WOODRUFF: An Iran nuclear
deal is reached. World powers
and Tehran strike a compromise
to end sanctions and
limit nuclear power.
Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Also ahead this Tuesday: full
analysis of today's historic
pact. What will a new chapter
in Iran's relations with
the world look like?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus:
HAL WEAVER, New Horizons Project
Scientist: I like to call this
a mission of delayed
gratification.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Unlocking the
mysteries of the solar system's
underdog, after a three
billion-mile journey and nearly
a decade, a close-up look at
Pluto.
HAL WEAVER: The opportunity to
transform Pluto from a little
pixelated blob into a
world with complexity and
diversity is just going to be
amazing.
GWEN IFILL: Those are some of
the stories we're covering on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The world woke
up today to the news of an
agreement aimed at curbing
Iran's nuclear weapons program.
It was the fruit of marathon
talks between Iran and a
group of world powers, the
United States and other
permanent members of the U.N.
Security
Council, plus Germany.
The weary foreign ministers
gathered after 18 long days and
nights of talks in Vienna.
It's a great honor for us to
announce that we have reached an
agreement on the Iranian
nuclear issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Within minutes
of that formal statement,
President Obama addressed the
nation
from the White House.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: We have stopped
the spread of nuclear weapons
in this region. Because of this
deal, the international
community will be able to verify
that the Islamic MDNM Republic
of Iran will not develop a
nuclear weapon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The agreement
followed more than two years of
talks, including the first
direct U.S. negotiations with
Iran in more than 35 years. The
president said it met
his standards for a good deal.
BARACK OBAMA: This deal meets
every single one of the bottom
lines that we established
when we achieved a framework
earlier this spring. Every
pathway to a nuclear weapon
is cut off.
And the inspection and
transparency regime necessary to
verify that objective will be
put in place. Because of this
deal, Iran will not produce the
highly enriched uranium
and weapons-grade plutonium that
form the raw materials necessary
for a nuclear bomb.
will be limited for eight years;
5,000 centrifuges will be
allowed to operate, while 14,000
others,
including more advanced models,
are monitored by international
inspectors.
For 15 years, Iran will be
allowed a stockpile of 660
pounds of uranium, but enriched
to
a level well below
weapons-grade. Enrichment will
end at the Fordow nuclear site,
and the
heavy water reactor at the Arak
site will be rebuilt for
peaceful uses. And Iran agrees
not to engage in research and
development that could lead to a
nuclear weapon.
Still, harking back to President
Reagan's trust but verify, Mr.
Obama said the U.S.
and its five partners will not
simply trust Iran to comply.
BARACK OBAMA: This deal is not
built on trust. It is built on
verification. Inspectors
will have 24/7 access to
Iran's key nuclear facilities.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In return, Iran
gets phased relief from
sanctions that have crippled its
economy for years, but there are
provisions for a snap-back of
those sanctions if Tehran
violates the agreement. Even
so, Iran's president, Hassan
Rouhani, insisted today
it's not the sanctions that
got his country to bargain.
HASSAN ROUHANI, Iranian
President (through translator):
It was the resistance of our
people and their opposition that
brought the other side to the
negotiating table in the
best way. If today some of the
P5-plus-one countries want to
announce that they deterred
Iran from making an atomic bomb,
Iran has never pursed an atomic
bomb and will never
pursue that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, state TV
reported supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei thanked
Rouhani and his negotiators for
their honest and diligent
efforts.
But, in Israel, Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu wasted no
time in denouncing the deal.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, Israeli
Prime Minister: What a
stunning, historic mistake. The
world is a much more dangerous
place today than it was
yesterday. The leading
international
powers have bet our collective
future on a deal with the
foremost sponsor of
international
terrorism.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Netanyahu
relayed his concerns directly to
the president in a phone call.
He'd lobbied hard against the
deal, even addressing Congress
last March, at the invitation
of House Speaker John Boehner.
REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH),
Speaker of the House: The deal
that we have out there, in my
view,
from what I know of it
thus far, is unacceptable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Boehner today
left little doubt as to where he
and most House Republicans
stand on the pact.
REP. JOHN BOEHNER: It's going
to hand a dangerous regime
billions of dollars in sanctions
relief, while paving the way for
a nuclear Iran. If, in fact,
it's as bad a deal as
I think it is at this moment, we
will do everything we can to
stop it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senate
Republicans were likewise
skeptical, including Foreign
Relations Chair
Bob Corker.
SEN. BOB CORKER (R), Tennessee:
I have to say that, when we
passed over with the interim
agreement from dismantling their
program to moving towards
agreeing that there would be
enrichment, and then over time
moving to what I would call
managed proliferation, we really
crossed the Rubicon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Leading
Democrats promised to examine
the agreement closely, as
Congress
now has 60 days to vote up or
down. And the president fired
off a warning shot this
morning.
BARACK OBAMA: I am confident
that this deal will meet the
national security interest of
the United States and our
allies, so I will veto any
legislation that prevents the
successful
implementation of this deal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The matter was
immediate grist for the
presidential campaign.
Republican
Senator Marco Rubio, the Foreign
Relations Committee member,
blasted the deal in a statement,
saying: "I expect that a
significant majority in Congress
will share my skepticism of this
agreement and vote it down."
Another leading Republican
contender, Jeb Bush, ended his
denunciation saying: "This
isn't diplomacy. It
is appeasement."
The Democratic front-runner,
former Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton, was on Capitol
Hill
today, meeting with Democrats.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: I think
we have to look at this
seriously,
evaluate it carefully, but I
believe, based on what I know
now, this is an important step.
the deal in the
Security Council.
Later, there were small
demonstrations in Tehran
cheering the expected end to
sanctions.
People held flags and chanted
thanks to Iran's president. We
will hear from President
Obama's national security
adviser and several former U.S.
officials after the news
summary.
were disappointed. Instead,
worries about corporate profits
kept gains in check. The
Dow Jones industrial average
added 76 points to close above
18050. The Nasdaq rose 33
points and the S&P
500 added nine.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Greek Prime
Minister Alexis Tsipras sought
to rally his Syriza Party today
to back a new austerity bill.
The Greek Parliament has 24
hours to pass tax increases
and pension reforms, as the
price of a new international
bailout.
But, as Paul Mason of
Independent Television News
reports, Syriza lawmakers and
voters
aren't so sure.
PAUL MASON: If you want a
vision of Greece's troubled
future, start here. This
container
port was sold five years ago to
the Chinese for five billion
euros. Now the whole
waterfront's
for sale after the far-left
party, Syriza, agreed to rush
through privatization worth
50 billion. The problem, the
Syriza-supporting dockers who
work here. This man is their
leader.
And he wants the government to
reject the deal it just signed.
If you could say one thing to
Alexis Tsipras, what would it
be?
GIORGOS GOGOS, Union Leader: So
far, he has gained the trust of
Greek people, so,
he has to continue with this and
to listen to the people to go
further and to reject
this agreement, which is
not an honest agreement.
PAUL MASON: As Syriza's leaders
arrived, tight-lipped for a
party meeting, their right-wing
coalition partner
wasn't tight-lipped.
He called what's happening a
coup, blackmail. And as the
vote nears in the Parliament,
it's pressure like this that
spurred up to 30 M.P.s from the
ruling party to rebel, including
the M.P. for the area where
the privatized port is.
STATHIS LEOUTSAKOS, Greek
Parliament Member (through
translator): Syriza can only
stay
united if it sticks to the
program it stood on at the
election. And that's what it
needs
to do. There's no growth and no
solution for Greece within the
Eurozone. And if we
go on like this,
Eurozone is over.
PAUL MASON: Athens tonight
subdued and waiting for an
answer. Can the most far-left
party
ever elected in modern Europe
summon the nerve to do austerity
on this scale?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tsipras and his
party were voted into power in
January promising to end
years of spending cuts and
other austerity measures.
GWEN IFILL: This was the day
for closing arguments in the
trial of James Holmes, almost
three years after he opened fire
in a Colorado movie theater.
Prosecutors argued Holmes
was sane and intent on mass
murder when he killed 12 people
and wounded dozens more.
Defense attorneys say Holmes
should be found not guilty by
reason of insanity. The trial
has lasted 11 weeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Relatives of a
New York City man who died in
police custody vowed today
their fight is not over. Eric
Garner's family reached a $5.9
million settlement on Monday.
He died last summer, when a
white officer put him in a
chokehold. Garner's mother
called again today for federal
civil rights charges.
GWEN CARR, Mother of Eric
Garner: This settlement that we
get, people -- we're walking up
and
down the street, they're saying
congratulations. Don't
congratulate us. This is not a
victory.
The victory will come when we
get justice. Then we want to
have a victory party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A state grand
jury has declined to indict the
police officer.
GWEN IFILL: A Boston police
captain's son was ordered held
without bond today in an
alleged bomb plot. The FBI says
Alexander Ciccolo planned to set
off pressure cooker
bombs at a university. His
father alerted authorities that
Ciccolo had a history of
mental illness and wanted to
join the Islamic State group.
He was arrested in a sting
on the Fourth of July.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama
called today for reforms in
prison sentencing aimed at
eliminating racial disparities
and cutting costs. He spoke at
the NAACP National Convention
in Philadelphia and criticized
mandatory minimum sentences.
BARACK OBAMA: We have also
locked up more and more
nonviolent drug offenders than
ever
before for longer than ever
before. And that is the real
reason our prison population
is so high. In far too many
cases, the punishment simply
doesn't fit the crime.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To underscore
his point, the president
yesterday commuted the sentences
of 46 drug offenders.
GWEN IFILL: A new discovery lit
up the world of physics today.
For the first time, scientists
detected a subatomic particle
called the pentaquark. Its
existence was first predicted in
the
1960s, but it took the world's
largest atom smasher outside
Geneva to confirm that it's
really there. Researchers say
the discovery will help explain
the fundamentals of matter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the last of
Boston's record winter snowfall
finally melted today.
At one point, the snow was
heaped in a massive pile along
part of the city's waterfront.
Now all that's left are puddles
and tons of garbage that got
swept up by snowplows.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
after 20 months of negotiations,
digging into the landmark
deal over Iran's nuclear
program; an interview with
Republican presidential
candidate Louisiana
Governor Bobby Jindal; and
unlocking the mysteries of
Pluto.
GWEN IFILL: We return to the
news that dominated today, the
nuclear deal with Iran.
A short while ago, I spoke with
Susan Rice, the president's
national security adviser.
One of our leading allies,
Benjamin Netanyahu, prime
minister of Israel, today called
this
deal an historic mistake.
Why is he wrong?
SUSAN RICE, U.S. National
Security Adviser: Well, he's
wrong, Gwen, because this is
actually a very strong deal
that, when implemented, will cut
off all of Iran's potential
pathways
to a nuclear weapon in a
fully verifiable fashion.
We will have very intrusive 24/7
presence at all elements of
Iran's nuclear supply chain
and all of its declared
facilities. We will have the
ability to inspect facilities
about
which there are suspicions. We
will reduce Iran's stockpile of
enriched uranium by 98
percent.
Two-thirds of its centrifuges
will be dismantled and removed
and stored under international
observation. This will be the
most comprehensive and effective
nuclear transparency regime
ever implemented.
So, in fact, that is not the
case. And I think it's worth
recalling that Prime Minister
Netanyahu was equally critical
of the interim agreement that we
announced in November of
2013. He called that also a
historic mistake and he said the
sanctions regime would crumble
down.
Now he and many others are
arguing that we shouldn't take
the comprehensive deal that
we just negotiated. We should
stick with the interim agreement
that he criticized almost
two years ago. So, I think, as
time passes, if this is
effectively implemented -- and
we believe it will be -- then he
will in due course see its
benefits, as we do.
But the important thing to
understand, Gwen, is that Iran
will not receive any sanctions
relief under this comprehensive
deal until it has taken all the
necessary steps to meet
its nuclear requirements. So,
until it has dismantled the
centrifuges that it is required
to dismantle at Natanz and
Fordow, until it's shipped out
its stockpile of enriched
uranium,
until it's dismantled the core
of its plutonium reactor, there
will be no sanctions relief.
GWEN IFILL: But, Ambassador
Rice, if, for some reason, Iran
doesn't keep its promises,
if it doesn't grant access to
these suspicious sites, it goes
-- this whole thing goes back
to a joint commission on which
Iran serves as a member. Isn't
that a huge loophole?
First of all, the joint
commission is not the last word.
The last word is the United
Nations Security Council. And
we have constructed this deal in
a unique and very effective
fashion
where, if one permanent member
of the Security Council, if the
United States of America finds
that Iran is in material breach
of its obligations under this
agreement, we can go directly to
the Security Council, and White
House a -- White House a
time-bound period, snap back
unilaterally
all of the sanctions under the
U.N. auspices that we have
today.
And, of course, we can snap back
our national sanctions, and the
E.U. can do the same. So,
we can't be stopped by China, by
Russia, by Iran if in fact there
is a material breech.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's talk
about the sanctions. Even by
lifting them for a short period
of time, you are starting the
flow of money to Iran which
could go to support some of
our enemies, including people
who are trying to take out
Syrian President Assad. How
do you justify that?
SUSAN RICE: Well, let's recall
why we have the sanctions in the
first place.
I was the ambassador at the
United Nations when we
implemented and negotiated the
toughest
and last of these sanctions
resolutions. The whole purpose
of the sanctions regime and
the reason why we got the entire
international community, not
just to support them, but to
implement them faithfully, was
because the aim was to use the
sanctions pressure to bring
Iran to the negotiating table,
so that we could prevent Iran
from acquiring a nuclear
weapon.
This was never about human
rights. It wasn't about
terrorism. It wasn't about
Iran's
destabilizing activities in the
region, all of which we remain
deeply concerned about.
But it was about preventing
Iran from getting a nuclear
weapon at the negotiating table.
We have succeeded, if this deal
is implemented, in doing that.
And the deal always was that,
if and when Iran met its nuclear
obligations and the world could
be satisfied that it wasn't
able to develop a nuclear
weapon, then the sanctions would
be lifted.
And so the sanctions under this
scheme would be lifted, but only
after Iran's taken all
the steps and we have verified
that it's taken all the steps
that it's committed to take.
And then, even after the
sanctions are suspended, we will
have the ability if over -- at
any
point over a 15-year period Iran
violates its obligations, to
snap these sanctions back
into place swiftly and
effectively, without Iran or
Russia or China getting in our
way.
GWEN IFILL: Was there any
discussion at any point about
releasing U.S. hostages as
part of this deal?
SUSAN RICE: Not as part of this
deal, but we have been in
discussions with the Iranians
about the Americans that are
being imprisoned in Iran. This
is a source of very, very
grave concern for all of us, and
in particular President Obama.
Those talks continue. And we're
not going to rest until they are
released. But we
never wanted to link them to the
nuclear deal, because,
obviously, up until the last
minute,
there was every possibility that
there wouldn't be a nuclear
deal.
So we're committed to getting
our Americans home safely in any
event, and we will continue
to work to do everything we can.
GWEN IFILL: And, finally,
Ambassador Rice, is the
president's veto threat open to
discussion
or negotiation?
SUSAN RICE: It didn't
sound like it, did it?
GWEN IFILL: OK.
SUSAN RICE: No, Gwen,
seriously, and -- no, because we
have negotiated a deal that is
good for the United States, it's
good for Israel, it's good for
world peace and security.
And if the United States
were the country,
the sole country out of the
international community to blow
up a deal that we have
negotiated
that we believe satisfies all of
our requirements, then what will
happen? Well, in the first
instance, the sanctions regime
that we have worked so hard to
maintain will fall apart,
because the rest of the world
will say, what is the point?
Countries like Japan and India
that have paid an economic price
to implement these sanctions
would no longer feel the
obligation to do so. Iran would
say, look, we signed up for
the deal, we're ready to do our
part, but now, since there's no
prospect of sanctions
relief, we're going to pursue
our nuclear program
unconstrained.
That would be a lose-lose
situation. So it would be very
unfortunate if the United
States were the one to abrogate
and therefore blow up a very
good deal. And so, when the
president said he would veto
efforts to undermine this deal,
he meant it.
GWEN IFILL: National Security
Adviser Susan Rice, thank you
for joining us.
SUSAN RICE: Thank you
for having me, Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how
effective is this deal at
preventing Iran from obtaining a
nuclear
weapon?
We hear from four people with
extensive U.S. foreign policy
experience.
Sandy Berger was national
security adviser to President
Bill Clinton. Retired General
Michael Hayden was director of
the CIA during the George W.
Bush administration. Dennis
Ross served in Republican and
Democratic administrations as a
Middle East peace envoy. And
Jim Woolsey
was director of the CIA during
the Clinton administration.
And we welcome you
all to the program.
Let me just start by asking you
all, what do you make of this
deal? Does this prevent
Iran from getting
a nuclear weapon?
Jim Woolsey, to you first.
JAMES WOOLSEY, Former CIA
Director: I don't believe it
does. I think there is no
elastic,
essentially, in the snap-back
sanctions. They will -- they
really depend upon Russian and
Chinese cooperation.
And I think that...
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you mean
they depend on Russian and
Chinese cooperation?
JAMES WOOLSEY: In order to take
action based upon something that
we perceive the Iranians
have done, unless the Iranians
agree and say, oh, yes, we did
that, you have a situation
where we have to try to force
discipline on the system, and
we're not going to have Russian
and Chinese support, mostly,
in order to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How strong is
that agreement, Sandy Berger,
and do you see that weakness?
agreement.
I think it prevents Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon for
at least 10, probably 15
years. I don't think it depends
on trust. I think it's
verifiable. If they cheat,
we can go to the U.N. I think
Jim is wrong about the way of
reimposing the sanctions.
The way the agreement is
written, Russia, China and Iran
cannot stop us from reimposing
the sanctions.
If the -- if us and -- if we or
our allies believe Iran is
cheating, and we go to the
U.N., we cannot be blocked by
Russia, China and Iran alone or
in combination. That's
a pretty strong provision. And
I think it's essential to the
fabric of this agreement.
We're not relying upon anything
other than our own judgment as
to whether or not they're
cheating on this agreement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: General
Hayden, how do you see this?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN (RET.),
Former CIA Director: Well,
actually a combination of the
two
views you just heard.
I think it does do some really
good things for a period of
about a decade, but it does
legitimate an
industrial-strength Iranian
nuclear program. As we get to
the sunset
years, even assuming success
across the board for the
agreement, as we get to the
sunset
years, Iran is very
well-positioned to break out if
they choose to do so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dennis Ross, why
isn't that a concern, that it
does wind Iran down for
a period of years, but when that
period is over, Iran can build
back up again?
DENNIS ROSS, Former U.S. Envoy
to Middle East: Well, I think
it is a period. I think
it is a source of concern.
I think the key here is, for 15
years, you really are basically
deferring what they can
do when it comes to a nuclear
weapon. But come year 15, they
are a threshold nuclear
state. And unless we establish
a very clear deterrent, so that
they understand if they
move from threshold to weapons
status, that the price is going
to be unbearable, meaning
not just sanctions, but the use
of force, that's the only way to
ensure that they don't
become a nuclear weapons state.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And do you think
that deterrent is clear and
strong?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN:
Not right now.
I think we have to make -- I
think language has to be much
more blunt. I think we have
to be clear it's not just all
options are on the table, but we
will not permit Iran
to become a nuclear weapons
state and we will take whatever
steps are necessary, including
the use of force,
to ensure that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sandy Berger,
you're shaking your head.
SANDY BERGER: Yes.
No, I agree.
The president has said we will
not permit Iran to develop a
nuclear weapon. That is
a commitment of the United
States. It doesn't expire.
It's not vitiated by this
agreement.
He should reiterate that and
make it very, very clear.
But the agreement itself
restricts Iran for 15 years.
But the verification provisions
go on much longer. So we will
have transparency under this
system for a very long time.
And
if the president reiterates that
view that we're not going to
prevent Iran from developing
a nuclear weapon, we will have a
lot of access to what they're
doing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: why doesn't that
give you confidence, Jim
Woolsey?
JAMES WOOLSEY: Well, in the
first place, Russia and China
are members of the Security
Council, and one can do little
under this agreement without
having the Security Council's
support.
And I think that the real
problem is that, by paying tens
upon tens of billions of dollars
to Iran in the near term, which
we will do as a result of the
sanctions being lifted,
we're creating a situation in
which Iran is the leading
terrorist country in the world,
has a lot more resources
available to it to buy what they
want via Hamas and the other
terrorist organizations
they front.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Gwen asked
National Security Adviser Susan
Rice about that.
Michael Hayden, is
that a concern to you?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: It's
absolutely a concern.
So, assuming a good agreement,
let's say it works for that
10-year period, we have got
the sunset problem. But also,
Judy, look at what we have just
done. We have legitimated
a program until this morning
that was illegal, that was in
violation of U.N. Security
Council
resolutions.
We have brought Iran back into
the family of nations. It's now
no longer a renegade
state. The sanctions end, they
become rich, and none of those
other activities about which
we are very concerned Iran has
been conducting, none of those
have stopped.
JAMES WOOLSEY: Exactly.
SANDY BERGER: Well, I
would say two things.
First of all, Iran is a nuclear
threshold state. They have been
a nuclear threshold
state since they started
building centrifuges in the
middle of the Bush
administration.
The question is, what are we
going to do about it? Are we
going to roll it back or
let them have this
program and go forward?
So I think that's where we are
at this point. I absolutely
agree this agreement does not
solve the Iranian problem in the
region. Iran is a country that
is destabilizing the region,
a country that we have to be
concerned with. I don't see
this agreement as solving that
problem. I think this agreement
is useful, not in spite of that,
but because of that,
because all those conflicts, all
that ambition would be more
dangerous if Iran were
emboldened
because they had a
nuclear weapon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Dennis
Ross, as someone who has worked
on that -- those conflicts
in the region, how do you
see that aspect of it?
DENNIS ROSS: Look, there is no
question that they will get,
with sanctions relief,
they will get to what amounts to
a windfall. True, it is their
money, but you have close
to $150 billion that are in
frozen assets, frozen accounts
right now.
They don't get it for about six
months. What Susan Rice said is
right. They have to implement
the major obligations, the major
nuclear obligations in the deal.
And it will take about six
months to do that. I think the
key here at this point is for
the Iranians to understand
two things. One, we need to
reestablish deterrence not only
at the level of them not
moving from threshold to nuclear
weapons state status, but also
we have to raise the cost
to them of what they
do in the region.
We have to be prepared to
compete with them. They have to
realize that if we see them
giving a lot more money to
Hezbollah, a lot more money to
Hamas, to the Houthis or to
(INAUDIBLE) in Iraq, they are
going to see much greater
competition from us.
We should be talking to the
Europeans now about targeted
sanctions if we see that. And
we should be doing contingency
planning with the Israelis and
with the Arabs to deal with
increased activity by the
Iranians throughout the region.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I saw the
president in a phone call today
with Prime Minister Netanyahu
was trying to reassure him
on some of these points.
Jim Woolsey, I want to come to
this other question of
inspections. The president said
-- it was noticeable the
president said 24/7 access. But
then, later, we see it's
something
called managed access. How
comfortable are you with
whatever inspection arrangement
there
is?
JAMES WOOLSEY: Not at all.
If we point out a violation or
the need for an inspection, you
have two weeks, and then
it goes to a committee, and then
the committee looks at it for a
while, and then -- this
has all been very elaborately
constructed in such a way as to
give Iran a lot of leeway
in order to deal with this, and
they do not have to have,
ultimately, a huge industrial
structure that they can't hide.
They can hide the relevant parts
of being able to make a few
weapons in a relatively
small space and can move them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Where do you
come down on this, General
Hayden?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN:
Pretty much where Jim is.
The inspections are the
pass-fail aspect of the
agreement. And we cannot do it
through
American espionage or national
technical means. The only way
we get a verifiable agreement
is that the IAEA gets to
go where they want to go.
And, Judy, fundamentally, I
think that's a technical
question that this international
group should have the freedom to
move. The solution set here
moves this into a political
process. And I'm just fearful
that that will make it much more
difficult to verify.
SANDY BERGER: Look, I think the
agreement is quite clear. I
think the administration
has done a good job here.
If the Iranians don't let us
into a particular site, there is
a process of several weeks.
If we're not satisfied, we and
our allies can go to the
Security Council and have the
sanctions reimposed. If Russia
is screaming, if China is
screaming and if Iran is
screaming,
they cannot block that. So, I
think that's really crystal
clear.
Let me just make one other point
on the sanctions point. We
don't own these sanctions.
They're
not ours. They're international
sanctions. They include the
Indians and the South Koreans
and the Japanese and a lot of
the countries that aren't
terribly threatened by Iran.
They opposed these sanctions,
because they wanted to bring
Iran to the table, and they
believed we would negotiate
seriously. If we don't now
follow through on that, the
sanctions
regime will unravel, Iran will
get its money without any
nuclear controls.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that raises
the question about what happens
if this falls apart. For
the critics who are saying this
is the wrong deal, what's the
alternative, Dennis Ross?
think the point that Sandy
just made is right.
There is a reality here. You
have the international community
basically embracing this
agreement.
Certainly, the members of
5-plus-one have embraced this
agreement. The Iranians will
say they're going to implement
the agreement. I actually
think, if this were to be
blocked,
the Iranians would come out and
say, we will implement it.
And the European Union -- if you
read the agreement, the European
Union, commits, there
are separate paragraphs where
the European Union commit, if
the Iranians do their part
in terms of meeting these major
obligations, the E.U. is then
committed to lifting the
sanctions.
So, I am concerned that you
wouldn't be able to sustain
that. And so if the critics are
really convinced that the best
way to deal with this is to
block the sanctions, they
have to explain why the outcome
isn't going to be sanctions
collapse, the Iranians get
the windfall, they're
really not restricted.
In a sense, both -- from my
standpoint, the administration
has some issues it has to
address,
including how you deal with the
suspect sites. It's an -- we
have 24/7 access to facilities
like Natanz. It comes -- when
it comes to suspect sites, that
becomes more problematic,
and then you're talking about
what could be a 30- to 35-day
period before you actually
get access.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you're
saying the critics also have a
question to answer.
Jim Woolsey, what is the answer?
Why wouldn't the sanctions
regime collapse, Iran just moves
toward complete nuclear
program that it wants?
JAMES WOOLSEY: Well, I think it
will come very close to doing
that anyway.
We have to realize what we have
got here and what we're dealing
with. It's not a state
-- I led once set of
negotiations and participated in
three with the Soviets. And
with the
Soviets, it was a different
situation. They were far from
lovely folks to deal with.
But with Iran, we're dealing
with a leadership of the country
that are theocratic,
totalitarian,
genocidal imperialists. And
each of those words I think can
definitely be supported.
They have a word, taquia, which
essentially means lying to
infidels. It's recommended.
And we are not dealing with a
normal sort of autocratic state
that we have to be careful
how we deal with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But my question
is, if this doesn't work, what's
the alternative?
Isn't the alternative, Michael
Hayden, Iran has a clear path to
do what it wants?
GEN. MICHAEL HAYDEN: It
depends. It depends on American
leadership. It depends on how
clearly we state our reasons
that this is not a good enough
deal.
And good enough might be as good
as it gets. But, Judy, if you
push that logic to far,
you don't have a plan B, you
could actually back yourself
into a position where any deal
is better than no deal. And I
don't think that's a sustainable
position.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gentlemen, we're
going to leave it there. It's
just day one of debating
this nuclear agreement.
We thank you all for being here,
Jim Woolsey, Michael Hayden,
Sandy Berger, and Dennis Ross.
Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: The Iran nuclear
deal is just one of the many
issues that could be turned
inside out by the next president
of the United States.
We turn now to another of our
periodic conversations with the
candidates running for the job,
Republican
Bobby Jindal, the
governor of Louisiana.
Welcome, Governor.
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL (R-LA),
Presidential Candidate: Gwen,
thank you for having me.
GWEN IFILL: You said today that
this would be a dangerous deal,
this Iran deal that the
president announced today. Have
you had a chance to study it?
Why do you feel that?
And this is why I think it is a
bad deal for the United States,
for Israel and our allies.
Several details that are
troubling, so Iran keeps
thousands of centrifuges,
instead of
giving up all of their
enrichment capacity. We don't
truly get anytime/anywhere
inspections.
They're not cutting off their
ties to Hamas, Hezbollah, these
other terrorist groups.
There are other issues I have
got with this deal as well. I
worry, under this president's
deal, we could end up with a
nuclear arms race in the Middle
East. You could see Sunni
countries now trying to buy
this technology from Pakistan.
I hope that Secretary Clinton,
who's been the architect of this
president's foreign
policy, will come out and oppose
this deal and say it's time for
America to stand with
Israel. There is still time for
America to come out and say, we
will not allow Iran
to become a nuclear power.
So, there are several things I
don't like about this deal.
When they first started
negotiating this deal, the
president himself said that we
were going to get
anytime/anywhere
inspections, they wouldn't be
allowed to keep any enrichment
capacity. Unfortunately,
that's not what this deal does.
GWEN IFILL: Well, Secretary
Kerry, the current secretary of
state, said today that people
who criticize it, as you just
have, don't have an alternative.
As president, not as a candidate
for president, what would you do
to roll this back?
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: Well, Gwen,
I actually think we have a lot
of leverage right now,
falling oil prices. The Iranian
economy is in very, very deep
trouble.
I think, with tougher sanctions,
with a White House strategy that
says every option is on
the table, we will stop the
Iranian regime, this Iranian
government from having a nuclear
capability. We need to
understand this is a regime or
this is a country where they're
still chanting death to America,
death to Israel. They still
haven't released their
American prisoners. They still
haven't rejected, cut off ties
to terrorism.
Secretary Kerry himself has said
they are a state sponsor of
terrorism, recently saying
that they are one of the largest
state sponsors of terrorism in
the entire world. This is
a country we cannot afford to
allow to become a nuclear power.
So, I think every option needs
to be on the table. We need to
negotiate from strength.
This president too often has
said what he wouldn't do,
instead of what he would do.
I hope Secretary Clinton will
come out and others in the
Democratic Party will come out
and say, with not just
Republicans, but on a bipartisan
basis, that this is an American
issue, not a Democrat or
Republican issue. This is bad
for the regions.
GWEN IFILL: Well, assuming that
you have to get past 14 other
Republican candidates
before you get to Secretary
Clinton, I want to ask you a
little bit more about yourself
first.
You said, among other things,
that you don't like the idea of
hyphenated Americans.
Obviously,
You're of Indian heritage. What
do you about -- to people of,
say, Italian-American heritage
who think that you're asking
them to set that heritage aside?
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: Well, Gwen,
the great thing about America
is, we're a wonderful
melting pot.
Folks can be proud of their
heritage. But I think the
hyphenations, the divisions are
keeping us apart. We're not
Italian-Americans or
Indian-Americans or
African-Americans or
Asian-Americans or rich
Americans or poor Americans.
We're all Americans.
Look, my parents are proud of
their Indian heritage, but they
chose to come here over
40 years ago in search of the
American dream. They wanted to
raise their kids as Americans.
That's why they came here.
What I worry about is, I look to
Europe. You have got
second-, third-generation
immigrants that don't consider
themselves parts of those
societies.
English, adopt our values, roll
up their sleeves, get to work.
Look, I think it's common sense
to say, if you want to come
here, you should want to be an
American. Otherwise, why are
you coming here? We can still
embrace our Italian heritage or
our old country heritages,
but we should be Americans.
Stop the hyphenated Americans.
GWEN IFILL: And I want to ask
you about another one of your
Republican competitors.
And, of course, that is Donald
Trump, who has been sucking a
lot of the air out.
Today, there's a new poll, a
small poll, not a necessarily
representative poll, but showing
him at least by name recognition
doing fairly well. Do you agree
with his approach and
the words in particular that he
used to describe the immigration
problem?
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: No, Gwen. I
do not. And I have said I don't
agree with his comments.
in D.C. need to calm down here.
The funny thing is, every time
they attack Donald, I
actually think he enjoys it.
And I think he gets the best of
those exchanges.
I think there is political
correctness run amok in D.C.
You saw the bill last week
where they tried to -- one
congresswoman tried to stop the
use of the word husband and
wife.
This is a free country. And
the great thing on the
Republican side is, we have got
a lot of candidates running. It
will be an open debate, unlike
on the Democratic side.
The voters will get to decide,
not the establishment. I know
the RNC tried to get him to tone
down or try to sensor him. And
I think that's a mistake. Let
folks debate it out. Obviously,
I think I'm better qualified. I
think people should vote for me,
instead of him or the
others running.
But the good news is, this is an
open and free debate. There's a
First Amendment.
Let the voters decide. Let's
stop trying to be political
correct. Now, look, obviously,
he enjoys the controversy. I
think he actually benefits from
it.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Well, I'm
sure that's true as well.
But speaking of debates, how do
you get on to a debate stage
which is so crowded and
which, at least in the first two
instances, they're saying only
the people who rank the
highest, top 10, will make it
onto that stage? How do you get
your message out if you don't
make it onto that stage?
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: Well, Gwen,
that's a great question.
And you said something earlier I
want to come back to about this
being about name I.D. And
that's really what the polls are
right now. It is really a
beauty contest. At this
point, if you have run for
president before, if you have a
famous last night name, if
you're
in D.C. in the Senate and in
front of the cable news cameras
every day, then obviously
you have more name I.D. I
think, if Tom Brady got in this
race, he would probably
be first in terms of the
national polls now.
The reality is this. The voters
are going to get to decide, not
the D.C. establishment,
not the donors in New York. I'm
spending my time in Iowa, in New
Hampshire, in other
states talking directly to
voters. We're getting a great
response at every town hall,
getting hundreds and hundreds
of people coming out.
We're staying afterwards until
the last person leaves,
answering everybody's questions.
I
think voters are saying we don't
want just somebody who is going
to give a good speech.
We want somebody who is going
to embrace our principles.
Jeb Bush says you have got to be
willing to lose the primary in
order to win the general.
Gwen, I disagree with that.
When the establishment says
that, they're saying, stop being
conservative.
Try to get the left and the
media to like you. I think
voters are saying, we want
somebody who is going to repeal
Obamacare, secure the border,
stand with Israel, somebody
who is going to shrink the size
of government, somebody who is
going to stand up to radical
Islamic terrorism.
So, we're going out and directly
talking to voters. We have had
a great response. We're
going to continue to do that.
GWEN IFILL: Governor Bobby
Jindal of Louisiana, Republican
candidate for president, thank
you for joining us. We
will be talking again.
GOV. BOBBY JINDAL: Gwen,
thank you for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's been a
once-in-a-lifetime journey, and
today NASA believes its New
Horizons
spacecraft finally made a
successful flyby of Pluto.
Once considered the ninth planet
in our solar system, Pluto is
billions of miles away.
Confirmation
of the spacecraft's arrival is
expected tonight. But there
were celebrations earlier today
at mission control, as all
signs pointed to success.
Science correspondent Miles
O'Brien fills in the picture of
this mission.
This story was done with help
from the PBS program "NOVA,"
which airs "Chasing Pluto"
tomorrow night.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ready or not, it
is finally time for Pluto's
closeup. Once a full-fledged
planet, now considered something
less, it remains an intriguing
mystery 85 years after
its discovery, but not for long.
The picture is growing clearer
as a fast-moving spacecraft
arrives at the solar
system's underdog.
ALAN STERN, New Horizons
Principal Investigator: It was
always the planet with the
little
question marks everywhere. We
didn't know anything. And
because it's the last in the
public mind, it takes
a special place.
MILES O'BRIEN: Pluto has taken
a special place in planetary
scientist Alan Stern's
mind since 1988. That's when he
first began pushing NASA to send
a spacecraft to what
was then the ninth planet
in our solar system.
The three-billion-mile journey
of the New Horizons spacecraft
began in 2006. It left
the Earth faster than any
spacecraft ever, making a
beeline for Pluto, getting a
gravitational
kick from Jupiter as it bulleted
past, snapping pictures all the
while. And now, after nearly
a decade in space, New
Horizons is finally there.
HAL WEAVER, New Horizons Project
Scientist: I like to call this
a mission of delayed
gratification, because it takes
nine-and-a-half years to get all
the way out to Pluto, but
we're almost there. And the
opportunity to transform Pluto
from a little pixelated
blob into a world with
complexity and diversity is just
going to be amazing.
MILES O'BRIEN: Hal Weaver is
the New Horizons project
scientist. He admits to some
nerves
here in the home stretch.
HAL WEAVER: Oh, yes, I'm
somewhat nervous because, in the
space business, you're only
as strong as your weakest link.
And we have put so much effort
into making sure that we
squeeze as much as possible out
of this mission scientifically.
MILES O'BRIEN: And that
scientific to-do list is a long
one. Despite what we may
imagine, Pluto is no simple
ice-covered rock, although, with
a surface temperature of 387
below zero Fahrenheit, there is
plenty of ice, ice made of
carbon dioxide, methane,
ethane and nitrogen, also the
main ingredient of its
atmosphere.
Besides cold, the Pluto weather
can be cloudy, hazy and windy.
The sun is so distant that
high noon on Pluto is like dusk
here on Earth. It appears there
are mountains and valleys.
And, yes, it is red. Sorry,
Mars, you're not as special as
we once thought.
ALAN STERN: So, we think that
the color of the surface is a
direct byproduct of a
process called space weathering,
where the radiation from the sun
and cosmic rays generate
trace constituents in the
ices that have color.
MILES O'BRIEN: No less
interesting than Pluto is its
largest moon, Charon. It is
covered with plain old water
ice. They will be on the
lookout for cracks in the
surface,
which could be telltale signs
of liquid water below.
HAL WEAVER: So I would be
surprised if we see evidence of
some liquid water underneath
Charon's surface, but I wouldn't
say it's out of the question.
If we see cracks on
Charon's surface, and especially
if we can see some venting from
Charon's surface, that
would be really cool.
MILES O'BRIEN: Clyde Tombaugh
would heartily agree. In 1930,
he discovered Pluto at the
Percival Lowell Observatory
in Flagstaff, Arizona.
Tombaugh named his quarry Pluto
for the Roman god of the
underworld. Conveniently, the
first two letters are Percival
Lowell's initials. And,
coincidentally, about that time,
Disney's
cartoon dog of the same name
first appeared on the silver
screen.
Underdog indeed, and yet the
ninth planet just the same. But
the dogged march of scientific
discovery set Pluto up for a
cosmically unpopular demotion.
MIKE BROWN, California Institute
of Technology: As we had been
discovering larger and larger
and larger objects, that I -- in
my opinion, it made no sense
that Pluto was called a planet,
and it shouldn't be a planet.
MILES O'BRIEN: That's
astronomer and Pluto killer Mike
Brown, appearing in the PBS
"NOVA"
program "Chasing Pluto."
Starting in 1992, he and his
colleagues discovered a region
of large, rocky, icy,
planet-shaped debris at the
outer edge of the solar system.
It's called the Kuiper belt,
leftovers from the formation of
planets 4.6 billion years
ago. But the debris really hit
the fan for our beloved underdog
in 2005, when Brown and
his team discovered this object,
Eris. It's more massive than
Pluto.
MIKE BROWN: I had to make a
decision, what we were going to
call it. Is it a planet?
Is it not a planet? Is it the
10th planet? Is it the 52nd
planet? Is it -- is Pluto
not a planet? I knew that, that
no matter what I said, it would
be debated for a long
time.
MILES O'BRIEN: Eventually,
astronomers decided to call
Pluto and the other big Kuiper
belt
objects dwarf planets.
Whatever Pluto is called, New
Horizons is well-poised to
understand it much better.
The grand piano-sized
spacecraft is brimming with
seven scientific instruments,
spectrometers
that measure infrared,
ultraviolet, plasma and solar
wind, a student-built dust
counter,
a radio device to characterize
the atmosphere, and, of course,
cameras, visible, infrared
and the one that should make the
Pluto screen savers, LORRI,
short for Long Range
Reconnaissance
Imager.
ALAN STERN: Ultimately, LORRI
will allow us to map the surface
of Pluto well enough
that, if we flew over New York
City at the same altitude and
looked down with LORRI,
we could count the ponds in
Central Park and the wharfs on
the Hudson. It's a very
detailed
imagery at closest approach.
MILES O'BRIEN: By and large,
the spacecraft has run well
these past nine-and-a-half
years,
despite a brief scare on July 4,
when the computer crashed,
causing the probe to go
dark for a while. The team
says it is ready regardless.
MARK HOLDRIDGE, New Horizons
Encounter Mission Manager: We
have done dozens of operational
readiness tests.
MILES O'BRIEN: Mark Holdridge
is the encounter mission manager
for New Horizons at the Johns
Hopkins Applied Physics
Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland.
One of his key jobs has been to
lead the team through numerous
dress rehearsals, staying sharp
for the big event.
MARK HOLDRIDGE: So, we have
been really careful about timing
the operational readiness
tests to make sure that the last
one doesn't happen too soon
before the actual encounter,
because we will forget things.
MILES O'BRIEN: They can't
afford to forget, because New
Horizons will not orbit Pluto.
It is supposed to whiz by 18
times faster than a speeding
bullet, 7,800 miles from the
surface, taking pictures and
Hoovering up data as quickly as
it can.
The spacecraft will not be
transmitting while it gathers
its science, leaving the team
hanging
for 13 hours before they even
get a phone home. The postcards
are supposed to come
in the next day.
HAL WEAVER: We have no idea
what we're going to see. We're
going to be surprised. I'm
positive of that.
MILES O'BRIEN: Assuming all
goes well, NASA and APL will aim
New Horizons toward another
Kuiper belt object for a flyby
in 2019. But for now, all eyes
in the world of planetary
science are focused on Pluto and
the end of an era, as they
finish the first forays of
exploration into our
celestial neighborhood.
ALAN STERN: People will look
back on this time, from the '60s
to 2015, in future centuries,
I think, and say, that is when
the solar system was first
explored.
MILES O'BRIEN: The underdog at
the edge of our understanding
may be the last, and
the least, but perhaps that is
why unlocking its mysteries
seems so worthwhile.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Laurel, Maryland.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And online, you
can find more videos on Pluto
and follow "NOVA"'s live
tweets on the flyby. That's on
our home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
GWEN IFILL: Tonight on
"Frontline": an inside look into
the plight of Yazidi women and
children,
the religious minority in Iraq
who have been targeted by ISIS.
Survivors say women and children
are held for months and girls as
young as 9 are subject
to rape. One man is leading an
underground railroad to rescue
those who have been taken
captive by the terrorist group,
but part of the operation's
success depends on women fleeing
their captors.
NARRATOR: The rescue operation
begins. Khalil's contact tells
the family to sneak out of the
house in the middle of the night
and meet him in a car waiting
outside.
The contact will then guide them
out of ISIS territory through a
series of safe houses
along the border of Turkey and
Iraq. Abu Shuja (ph) heads
toward the border to meet
them, hoping that, this
time, they make it.
MAN (through translator):
We got here first.
We're waiting for the family.
They could arrive any minute,
but they have been delayed
on the other side. Their family
has come to meet them. They're
the relatives of the
captive women and children.
NARRATOR: After two hours, the
contact calls Abu Shuja, saying
they have arrived.
MAN (through translator):
Are they here?
WOMAN (through translator):
I think they're over there.
MAN (through translator):
Where? Where did they go?
They're here.
NARRATOR: The women and
children snuck out while their
captor was asleep.
MAN (through translator):
Welcome back. God bless you.
You're OK. You're OK.
WOMAN (through translator):
We're grateful to you. We will
never forget what you have
done for us.
NARRATOR: Medina's (ph) two
daughters are 9 and 10, the age
when ISIS says girls can
be forced into marriage. The
girls haven't seen their family
in seven months.
GWEN IFILL: "Frontline" airs
tonight on most PBS stations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And finally
tonight, to our "NewsHour"
Shares of the day, something
that
caught our eye which might
be of interest to you, too.
The Central Intelligence Agency
recently has allowed a peek into
its vaults of historic
spy gear, posting photos of spy
artifacts to its Web site each
week, like this miniature
camera that can fit inside a
pack of cigarettes or this radio
receiver hidden inside a smoking
pipe. Other artifacts of the
week? This hollowed-out silver
dollar which concealed
messages or film, and this Cold
War-era lady's compact mirror
with a secret code hidden
inside.
Calling James Bond.
GWEN IFILL: I have one
of those. No, I don't.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
online: After a 55-year gap,
fans can finally read a new
Harper Lee book. "Go Set a
Watchman" continues the story of
Atticus Finch, one of the most
beloved characters
from her first book.
We wondered what critics had to
say about "To Kill a
Mockingbird" when it was
released
in 1960. You can find those
reviews on our home page.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tune in
later tonight on "Charlie Rose":
more analysis of the Iran
nuclear deal.
And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
On Wednesday, we will continue
our running series of extended
interviews with presidential
candidates. Next up, Gwen talks
to Republican Senator Ted Cruz.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening. For all of us
here at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.